# roman_to_int
This was a java project that I created as a part of my final for my AP Computer Science class.

For this program, I was tasked with converting roman numerals to integers. I understood that my outer loop would have to traverse through the whole string while adding values to a sum variable. Therefore, I created a sum value to be used throughout the program, and decided that my outer loop would be a for loop. My initial thoughts were to create variables for each roman numeral, and assign the corresponding integer value to the variables. Though, I quickly realized that my program would not function accurately if I followed this algorithm. Testing simple roman numerals, like “III”, would give me back the correct integer. For more complex roman numerals, I needed to consider 6 instances where subtraction is used. Eventually, I decided on using a variation of nested if/else if loops to code this program. Instead of simply traversing through the substring and adding the values associated with the numeral to sum, I chose to create a separate string named sub and inserted the substring at variable i, from the outer for loop, into it. I decided that my approach would use the nested if/else if loops to check for each of the 6 instances by comparing the value in the separate string, sub, to the next value in the original string passed into the method. This way, I traversed the whole string while checking for each instance and added the values to sum, returning int sum at the end of the method. I tested my program once again with more complex roman numerals, like  "LVIII". While this worked, the test case of "MCMXCIV" did not return the correct integer. After checking for errors in my code, I saw that I simply forgot to include the specific instance check for “C” before “M”. After including this, I re-tested my test cases and received the correct integers for all. 

